[Music]
so I'm gonna go ahead and get started I
want to make sure we've got time for
some Q&A at the end because I want this
to be a conversation all right so our
session today is on leading through the
unknown which for me has never been a
more pressing topic given how suddenly
things have changed for all of us and so
I want to have this really be a
conversation on how we can all lead
through the unknown especially since we
don't have a clear idea of how long the
downturn will be how severe it will be
and what that will mean for our teams
our companies our customers so first
just a quick introduction about me I'm a
Bay Area native I started my career in
consumer internet at Blue Nile and eBay
so lives through the dot-com boom and
bust then moved over to b2b so spent
time at Survey Monkey five years at
Zendesk from when we were a private
company to a public company and then now
I'm at guru as the chief customer
officer and I also sit on two boards of
SAS companies so gusto and asanas I
would love the SAS space and have a
perspective certainly in terms of how
teams of every size are dealing with the
uncertainties right now and definitely
want to share some of those insights and
examples with all of you also important
to know about me I've got three kids
great husband
we are sheltering in place in the Bay
Area and I actually am enjoying more
time with my teenagers and hope that
they are enjoying their time with me so
this journey that we've been on to build
enduring companies and businesses has
never been necessarily easy even in
bloom times there are challenges the
trajectory is steep
there's turns along the way and now we
find ourselves looking at potentially a
much steeper trajectory
maybe the turns
even more uncertain and the decisions
are potentially harder for all of us so
as leaders what does this mean it means
that more than ever everyday people are
depending on us depending on you to make
the choice to lead and and that's an
important thing to emphasize here is a
choice on how we show up how we show up
for each other and how we show up for
our teens and something I really want to
just take a pause on and make sure we're
all clear on is that leaders don't have
to be managers it doesn't mean that your
people manager to be a leader this is an
important point because I think during
uncertain times there's an opportunity
to for every single person whether they
manage somebody or not to step up and be
a leader so if the definition of leader
is not necessarily a people manager what
is it and I want to go through sort of
five ideas of what it really means to be
a leader especially during uncertain
times
so leaders imagined a way forward they
maintained optimism which might seem
like a hard thing to do during these
times they communicate directly they
take brave action and through all of
these they really really end up helping
people bring their best and that's
really what our teams are depending on
us to do and our colleagues and our
customers right now so for each of these
I want to share either an idea or a tool
something that you can take away and
start acting on each of these concepts
of leadership so imagining a way for it
so during uncertain times we can all
find ourselves getting stuck right the
landscape has changed overnight and so
what we thought might happen this year
how we thought we might reach customers
this year how we thought we might grow
our teams this year has all changed and
so how do you have imagined a way
forward when the landscape and all your
assumptions are no longer the same so
the first thing is you know see the
current reality and then project out
what might the scenarios be so
the teams all the teams that I've worked
with our planning for both the best-case
scenario as well as the very worst case
scenario so seeing clearly what the
possibilities might be starts to open up
ideas that maybe you haven't considered
before so for your business in SAS maybe
you haven't offered a free product in
the past or we might not have offered a
free service in the past now's an
opportunity to explore things that maybe
weren't part of your business model
before so how can you see new
opportunities and the more that we can
see these new opportunities the more we
can help our teams believe in different
ways of approaching challenges and
uncertainty
another thing that teams I'm working
with are doing is really looking at how
their operations have changed so that
you might be seeing greater volume for
certain teams like your support team and
maybe you're seeing less demand in other
areas for example a slowdown in sales is
it a possibility to shift some of your
team from one function to another even
if it's temporary
so the gussto team quickly scaled their
sales folks to be able to serve
customers who are applying for PPP and
that was just a huge boost in both
service to end customers but also team
morale so helping your team believe in
new ways of doing things also helps them
think of new ideas the new approaches
that they can act on and then it comes
full circle right once you take action
you get feedback and you can see more
possibilities so beginning with
imagining a way forward and that those
actions can also lead some more
positivity and optimism in terms of
what's possible even if the assumptions
on growth have changed for your company
so this idea of optimism is also really
critical how do you maintain optimism
you know during all these uncertain
times something that I find so useful to
remember came from the research that
huggy Rao and Bob Sutton did with the
book scaling up excellence and that is
this simple equation that
as humans and find positive experiences
equals a negative experience essentially
it takes five positive things to
neutralize a negative and during these
times it's so many of the things that we
are hearing and experiencing are
negative and keeping that in mind we
need to shine a light on the things that
are positive and I don't mean sort of
fake positivity or kind of putting you
know a positive spin on something I mean
genuinely looking for the good that is
all around us and in our team so are
there team members who are stepping in
and helping other team members can you
showcase that are there people on your
team who are going out of their way to
help customers are there people on your
team who are helping former colleagues
who've lost their jobs how do you share
those stories more frequently so that
you're shining a light on what's
positive and remember it takes five to
neutralize a negative and so you've got
to look hard for that sixth one to also
tip the balance towards optimism and
hope the next thing we need to do is
communicate directly and for me that
means frequent listening and constant
sharing so under listening there are
some questions I really like to ask the
first one whether it's in one-on-ones or
in kind of team meetings or I also
really love having open office hours so
the first I like to ask is what are you
excited about and that can also help you
shine a light on the positivity in your
organization the next very pressing for
us all right now is what are you worried
about and that can often surface
unexpected answers and areas for you to
spend time on with your team what am I
not asked that you'd like to share I
really like that question too there's
sometimes things on people's minds and
that need a little bit of a nudging to
come out and then if you could change
one thing what would it be and these are
ways to get great ideas that are part of
all of our organizations and part of
every team surfaced and that we can act
on
in terms of constant sharing really
looking at how are you communicating
with your organization and adjusting
frequency so we went from a monthly town
hall at guru to every other week it's a
little less polished than it used to be
but we're talking more often the gussto
leadership team is meeting every day and
so depending on you the size of your
organization and your teens needs really
look at adjusting frequency think about
adding new formats for communications
especially with all of us working
remotely the Zenda leadership team
filmed videos that they sent out to
employees to give context to share what
was going across every function and they
actually found that employee engagement
was higher right now than it's ever been
because of these new formats of
communication
bring your cross-functional team members
together so it can be really easy to get
into patterns especially with remote
work right now we're we're just having
one-on-ones with our within our own
function and we're just trying to keep
up with our own team meetings what we're
missing that serendipity that can happen
if you were working together in an
office where different team members
could get context and hear what was
happening across the organization so
really creating opportunities for your
cross-functional team to come together
to stay aligned and to keep working
productively more important than ever is
give context and give it again so
especially for if you're on an executive
team or a leadership team the decisions
that you're rapidly making are are so
important to give that context and be
transparent on how you're making
decisions and why you're making the
decisions and then last but not least
subtract what's outdated take the
opportunities to stop doing things that
aren't working and that will free you up
to come up with new ways and be creative
and have fun with it in order to take
brave action we also need to be decisive
right and and right now with uncertainty
and with some really hard decisions in
front of all of us and we again we can
be stuck and we can hesitate on taking
action so something I really like is
just pick a decision-making framework
that's gonna work for you your team your
leadership team one a simple one I
really like is laying out the different
options and being really clear why you
like a certain option why you don't like
a certain option and then probably the
most critical line and all of this is
how you're gonna mitigate risk with each
of the options and you can come in to
hard decisions for example delaying
compensation changes that was one that
we as a leadership team at groom we're
tackling and as you can imagine strong
opinions all around given how dearly we
care about our team and so by laying out
the different options and being really
clear on the pros the cons and how we
would mitigate risk it was just much
easier for us to get behind a decision
and act on it and last but not least as
a leader you are here to bring people
and help bring them together there and
help them bring out their best and that
really comes more than ever to your
culture and investing in your culture
and I and for many of us that right now
it might not be funds that were
investing but rather our time and so the
components and culture that are more
important than ever are your mission and
purpose that's why everyone on your team
is here so how do you make sure you're
focusing everybody on your mission and
your purpose and the change that you're
creating in the world how do you look at
the norms the language and the programs
that you have that support your culture
and get creative with how you implement
them in an all remote environment
so something our team I agree we did it
was create a lifter spirit week so yeah
dress-up day we had baby picture day and
shared all this on slack and these are
things we probably wouldn't have done
when we were working in our respective
offices so how do you create new
programs and new norms that support your
culture during this time and then last
but not least your values how do you
make sure values are part of every
decision that you're making that are
there lifted up and celebrated and that
you're talking about them probably more
frequently than ever so in a timely way
embrace the journey is one of our values
at guru and now we really recognize that
embrace the journey is both about when
things are great in the economy and also
when things are not great in the economy
and that it is we're building for the
long term and so more than ever we talk
about embracing the journey and how
we're here for each other
and I'm sure that in each of your
organizations you have those core values
that are critical so just make sure
you're talking about them showcasing
them showcasing how different employees
are living your values and that really
inspire everybody to bring their best
and I would say a bonus one on leaders
is leaders find a way to be kind to
themselves because there's a lot of
pressure on everybody shoulders right
now there's a lot of tough decisions
you're trying to make and there's a lot
of uncertainty that you are trying to
make your way through and so my kind of
kindness to myself is I've got a
standing one-on-one with one of my dear
friends Amanda but we work together and
zoned us for many years she's now the
chief customer officer at Sigma and we
don't always use the standing one-on-one
because we get busy but it's just such a
great opportunity to compare notes to
have a safe place to talk about both the
challenges and the small wins and really
just make sure we're there for each
other so whatever that might be for
yourself to be kind to yourself and have
a safe space to really contemplate all
the challenges you know in front of you
I think it's really really important
that you make time to do that for
yourself and with that I would love to
answer some questions so yeah you've got
a few that have come through that have
been really good right yeah the first
one is when you're communicating
directly now which obviously is harder
and since everyone's remote like what do
you recommend as part of the leadership
on how to
eunuch eight may be tough news and
uncertain times do you recommend doing
it one on one or more during like an
all-hands yeah I would say that's a
great question and I would say it
probably depends on the news and who
it's affecting and and potentially
thinking about multiple opportunities to
you know communicate and then follow up
so you know again depending on your team
and your culture and your communication
style and you may want to think about
written communication to give more
context and give people time to absorb
the decision the why behind it the
changes and then have an all-hands where
you reiterate those points how you made
the decision open it up for questions
some people might feel comfortable
asking questions in that format others
might not and something we do I
mentioned it a little bit but we do
office hours I really like that concept
both now especially now in remote we
used to do that after our town halls
when we were in our respective offices
that grew but it's just a two-hour open
open time for anybody to join some
pecans it's just one person sometimes
it's a group of people who join and
different leaders on our team host the
office hours so those are really good to
follow up especially when you've
delivered hard news no I love I love the
office hours I think we all we have to
learn from each other that's good I I
definitely agree with you as well I
think you know it's helpful to maybe
over communicate a bit right at times
now and during in all hands especially
even if it's tough news or if it's not
tough news just so everyone's on the
same page like I know obviously Jason
who's like our CEO and Founder has been
doing what he calls a daily Jason oh he
emails everybody at the top of the
morning with like his focus for like
either the day or the week and then
obviously we like reinforce it and like
our daily All Hands so something like
that we've seen has worked a little bit
as well another question related in
european-- do you think there is such a
thing
right now has too much communication
yeah I with how quickly things are
changing I don't think there's too much
right you're you know I would I think
you would rather err on the side of more
than less and then if you're getting
feedback from your team you know that
back to that listening part if you're
getting feedback from the team that
they're like got it we've heard the
message then you can adapt but I think
in this current environment because
things are literally changing on a
week-by-week basis whether it's in our
business conditions or whether it's in
the shelter-in-place guidelines
depending on where your employees are I
just think there's a lot on people's
minds yeah I agree with that another
question that's a bit related to the
topic specifically amongst gesture
leadership team how have you changed
communication at all now that you know
you're probably used to having I imagine
like face-to-face meetings and check-ins
like how are you guys doing that now
that everyone's sort of remote yeah
um so we have always had you know
multiple offices a guru we have one in
San Francisco one in Philadelphia and so
I think we already had some practices in
place of you know zoom meetings whether
it's one-on-ones or team meetings but
something we are doing differently and
have introduced is we now have a
biweekly meeting for all of our people
managers and we had programs for our
people managers before but we're finding
now more than ever making sure our
people managers have a chance to get
together share what they're seeing and
hearing you know ask for help or context
or resources from the leadership team is
really important so I would just say
like thinking about you know now that
you're all remote what are the
connections that may be used to be
easier that are hard now and how do you
create new formats again to make that
you know to provide solutions for what
used to maybe happen naturally in sort
of dry
spies or context within an office yeah
it's hard to do an office pop in when
there's not an office to puppet alright
last question thank you so much for your
insights blast what I want to get your
opinion on here is how has your job
changed as both you know as a member of
the senior leadership team at guru but
also as a board member
given everything that's going on in the
last six weeks yeah I think the I would
say um I don't know that I would say
like the jobs change so much as the the
two things I think that are more
critical than ever our health of
employees and health of customers you
know health and well-being and so I
would say across the three companies
that I'm involved in that's what's
really bubbled to the top of all
conversations and priorities is number
one what are we doing for every single
employee to support them during this
time and how do we make sure we're we're
really listening to what the needs are
that we're flexible that we're
supportive and that we have a really
good pulse on how the team is doing and
I think all three companies have put
that as their top priority and then the
second is you know related to that
because I think employee happiness also
has to do with like are we serving our
customers well and how's the business
going is um how are we being creative to
meet our customers where they are and
and that's different across each of the
businesses but really reimagining how we
build those long-term relationships just
knowing that so many customers are
struggling right now yeah I think a lot
of what we've been hearing today is just
customer empathy and I think you said it
best right like take care of your team
take care of your customers I think
those are two really great priorities to
each other with mind right now yeah
absolutely and I think those give us
that you know that gives us the optimism
and the positivity and the hope during
these times right the more they're
serving others I think it makes the you
know broader and
and the challenges everyone's facing a
little bit easier to deal with yeah
exactly
okay well we're sadly out of time but
thank you so much and for your insight
it's fun for joining I know with the
webinar format I don't get to see all
your smiling awesome faces but I
appreciate the time you spent with me
today and look forward to following up
in different formats yeah thanks so much
and for joining us
[Music]